[Music]
[Applause]
Hey folks, welcome to
verifiedinvesting.com.
My name is Gareth Solomay, chief market
strategist here. Now, in today's video,
we have to take a look at a major
development on the S&P 500. On Friday,
we opened up, we rallied into a key
resistance. I've talked about it's a key
trend line and then we reversed closing
with a daily topping tail. I'm going to
dissect what a topping tail is. I'm
going to teach you how to calculate it
and we're going to talk about what it
means in this scenario here. Is it a
market top? That's something that we're
going to look at right now. All right.
So, first and foremost, this is the
beautiful thing. I mean, if you if
you've been under a rock, maybe you
haven't seen these videos where I've
done I've laid out the wedge pattern
that the S&P has been in. We've talked
about this ups sloping trend line going
back to 2023 connecting through all the
major correcting correction pivots. We
then broke down during the liberation
day selloff and the following and that
got us below. We've come up underneath
once and then look at what happened on
Friday. We literally I mean look at
this. You can't get closer than that.
Right into that trend line right there
reversed and this is a topping tail. Now
many of you might say well well how do
you know it's a topping tail? I mean
what's the criteria of a topping tail?
So, let's go over it. The first criteria
is it has to be at a recent major high
in the market. So, what I look at is it
has to be a 52- week high in the S&P or
an all-time high. Well, guess what? It
was both. It was a 52- week and all-time
high on the S&P on Friday. So, it's the
highest point in recent history. That's
number one. Check that off out. All
right. So, the next factor is it must be
the the tail must be of significant
length. It can't just be like this
little tiny tail, right? That's more of
a dogee versus this is a significantly
long tail. If we look at this, you can
see I mean this is a pretty substantial
tail in general from the low of the
candle to the high. I always say it
needs to be in the top 75% of of lengths
of peak to trough, right? So, if you
look here, it was bigger than this
candle. It was probably about the size
of this candle. It was bigger than this
one, bigger than this one, bigger than
this one. This one maybe around the
same, but you guys get my drift. In
general, this is in the top 25%, right?
So the the the upper echelon of size of
candle length. The next factor is you
must have a a candle where the body is
in the lower 50%. So if we look at this,
right, this would be about 50% right
here, we'll say again. And that's from
this high. And then you have the same
thing to this low, right? So you have
again this downward move. And let's just
do that again. And so the idea is that
from this point here down here. All
right, that's even a little bit more. So
we'd want to bring that down just a
little bit. Bear with me as I do that. I
would say right around here. And you can
see that the body is in the lower 50%.
From low to absolute high, from the
lowest point of the candle to the high,
the body is in the lower 50%. Right? If
it's up here, that can't be a topping
tail. Now, the last factor is the daily
close. the daily close on this candle.
So where it closed must be in the lower
25%. Now you might say, well, how do we
know that? Well, very easy actually. So
what we do is we take the high of the of
the day, right? So what was the high of
this candle and the low of this candle,
right? We take that difference, we
multiply it by 0.25, which is 25%. And
then we add it to the low of the day.
And as long as the close was in in or
below that level, then we're good to go.
So let's do that right now. So the high
of the day was 675087.
6750.87.
All right. All right. What was the low
of the day? The low of the day was
670567.
So 6070567.
Okay. Now what you do here is you find
the difference, right? So again on
another calculator here, I'm just going
to do 6750.87
87 minus 6705.67.
The difference here is 45.2 points. So
the difference between these two numbers
is 45.2.2
points. So 45.2.
Okay. So we have the difference maker
right here. This is the difference. And
now essentially what we're going to do
is we're going to multiply this number
by what are we going to do? By 0.25,
right? because that gives us the 25%
margin right there. So, times 0.25.
All right. And that gives us a a point
of $11, right? So, it equals $1130.
Okay. Now, what we do is to find out if
we closed. Now, we know the daily close
was 671578
right up here, right? 671578.
That was your daily close. So what you
have to do is you have to add this
number to this number and if it's below
then you have a bottoming tail in the
market. So we're going to add that
right. So 6 plus this $11.30 or 11.3
time uh plus 6705.67
and guess what that means that we needed
to close below. So here it is guys this
is the big reveal. We needed to close
below 671697.
All right. So, did the S&P close below
this level? This would be the 25%
uh threshold. And the answer is we
closed on the S&P at 671578.
[Music]
So 67578.
And is that less than this? The answer
is yes. Therefore, this my friends is a
topping tail. All right. So, we
officially we closed below this level
which was the 25% in the lower 25% of
that candle. That is a confirmed topping
tail. Now, again, in technical analysis
and I really wanted, by the way, what I
did there was I really revealed all the
keys because a lot of people will see a
candle and they'll just be like, "Oh,
it's like a topping tail." Is it really?
Because it makes a difference. The key
is when it's not, probability shifts.
And so while it still may play out, the
odds are, you know, is it 50/50? Is it
60/40? Is it 7030? When you get a
topping tail, especially one that hits a
trend line like this, there's something
to that. There's usually meat and
potatoes. I would say 75% chance you
have a major pivot high here in the
market. Now, the question is on the
downside, what are we going to look for,
right? We have to look and see, do we
come down and do we break this? Because
really, you know, even if with a topping
tail, okay, you might get a top in the
market, but we could still meander down
here for a while, but the question is
when does it break or does it break this
trend line? Or remember, a topping tail
can fail. I always like to point that
out because a lot of people think, oh,
it's a topping tail. Well, it's a
guaranteed win to the downside. The
answer is nothing's guaranteed in this
game, right? What you have to do is you
have to do a measurement. So if ever a
candle closes above Friday's high which
was 675087
guess what the topping tail is negated
and then what would you do? You would
then assume that wherever you are right
so so basically you have this ups
sloping trend line. So you would look at
this as being resistance. So this is now
above let's say it's over here. Well now
this is resistance again and we have to
watch it right? So you have to watch the
trend lines but this is giving us a
breadcrumb to a possibility that the
markets could be setting up to sell. The
last thing that I want to point out to
you guys after going through all of that
and so for so number one to summarize
the answer is yes it's a topping tail it
fits all the criteria it's at the high
of the chart in recent history it's
actually a new all-time high so
obviously the high of the chart number
two is the body in the lower 50% yes is
the close in the lower 25% the daily
close yes is it a long candle like uh
the the from the low to the high is it a
significant candle in the top let's say
25% of all size candles in recent
history, the answer is yes. And so all
of these check, check, check, check,
check check, they build your thesis for
it being a potential top signal. Now
remember, potential is the key word.
There's no guarantees, but it the odds
favor it being at least some sort of top
here in the near term. Then we'll have
to watch to see does this trend line
break. And if this trend line breaks, to
me, it's like at that point it goes to
90% probability that the cycle high is
in at that point. Once we break this
this here, 70 75% chance that we have a
cycle high. If we can break and confirm
below this, 90% chance. All right? And
remember, I live in a world of
probabilities, guys. A world of
probabilities because that's what
everything chartwise is. There's nothing
in stone. There's no guarantees. I have
my fair share of losses. But can I win
75 80% of the time by looking at charts
and analyzing them appropriately? The
answer is yes, I can by doing that. All
right. All right. Now, the last thing I
want to show you is something pretty
cool. What I want to do is I want to go
to our weekly chart here. So, we're
going we're zooming out to our weekly
here, and we're going to go to a co the
co low and do a parallel. And I want to
show you this, guys. This is pretty
remarkable. So, what we're seeing here,
right, what we're seeing here is that
essentially, if we take these lows and
look at this, guys, look at how this
works. All right? Low pivot, low pivot,
low pivot, right? And then we drag this
up. Look at this
high of the parallel.
Holy cow. Now I'm on the weekly, right?
We can go to the daily. You can still
see it on the daily. Look at this.
I mean, is that like So when you see
this, so this is number one, a huge
reveal here. This big peril. This goes
back to the COVID lows. So you're going
back five almost six years, five and a
half years here. Five and a half years.
And you have a parallel that we
literally hit the high end of. All
right. And by the way, you know, so you
got your daily topping tail. You hit
this first trend line which goes back to
here, this first orange trend line. Then
you have the parallel and the topping
tail. I almost want to give it a higher
percentage of probability that it's a
major cycle high because of that. All
right, these this is huge, folks. And
listen, I'm fully ready, especially the
way the market's been, to be
disappointed and be like, "Okay, well,
it wasn't." On, on we go. We march, you
know, march up. But again, as a
technician, if you don't take note of
that, if you're someone who does
technical analysis and you don't think,
"Holy cow, topping tail daily chart hits
the trend line from October of 2023,
that is that we've been talking about
for a while." And then there's a
parallel that goes back to the lows
since COVID and the re the high of the
bull market in 2021.
That's some major stuff. And it makes me
giddy, you know. Listen, whether it
works out or not and we talked
probabilities, it's still the fact that
these things can align like that, that
is some pretty cool stuff. All right,
guys. I just wanted to get you to this.
This is amazing stuff here. I appreciate
it. Send it to a friend. Send it to
family if you think that they would be
interested in, you know, nonhype, like
just straight up probability analysis.
That's really all I ask from you guys.
I'll reveal all this stuff to you. Just
share it with your friends and family if
you think that they would benefit. All
right, have a good one, guys. Thanks
again. Take care.